W-19473121-hsa-component-partial-kt (#322)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: hybrid-standalone/modules/ROOT/pages/managing-servers-groups.adoc

= Managing Server Groups

Manage server groups in your hybrid standalone environment to coordinate multiple servers as unified deployment targets. Server group management includes adding and removing servers from groups, maintaining group membership, and performing administrative operations like group deletion while preserving individual server integrity.

== Add Servers to a Group

Add individual servers to an existing server group to expand your deployment capacity and enable load distribution across multiple runtime instances.

Make sure that you follow these requirements:

> * The target server group already exists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The target server group already exists.
```

> * At least one server is configured and available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* At least one server is configured and available.
```

> * No applications are currently deployed on servers you want to add to the group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* No applications are currently deployed on servers you want to add to the group.
```

To add servers to a server group:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. Select *Servers*.
. Click *Group* in the *Type* column to display the details pane.
. Click the *Add Server* button:
+
.The arrow shows the *Add Server* button in the details pane.
image::rtm-group-add-server-to-group.png["Add Server button"]
+
A list of available servers appears.

> . Select the servers to add to the group, and click the *Add Servers* button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the servers to add to the group, and click *Add Servers*.
```

* The servers no longer appear in the *Servers* list. 
* To see the list of servers in the server group, click the group name.

== Remove Servers from a Server Group

To remove a server from a group:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.
. Select *Servers*.
. Click *Group* in the *Type* column to display the details pane.

> . Click the *X* icon to the next to the server to remove the server from the server group:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *X* icon next to the server to remove the server:
```

+
.The arrow shows the *X* icon in the details pane.
image::rtm-remove-server-from-group.png["X icon"]

. In the *Remove* confirmation window, select the checkbox to verify that you want to remove the server from the group.
. Click *Remove*.

== Delete Server Groups

When you delete a server group, these actions occur:

* Alert definitions and history for the server group are deleted.
* Applications deployed to each server in the server group are cloned on each server.

> The servers assigned to the deleted server group are not deleted, restarted, or shut down. Servers that belong to the deleted group appear on the *Servers* page. You can deploy applications to them individually or add them to other server groups or clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting a server group doesn't delete, restart, or shut down the assigned servers. The servers appear on the Servers page. You can deploy applications to them individually or add them to other server groups or clusters.
```
